Do you have trouble with your computer? Does is freeze or shut down at the most inopportune times? Does it go haywire suddenly or arbitrarily erase important data for no reason? Does it vomit forth long dead languages in a deep, growling voice? If so, then you may have a serious problem. According to some reports, your computer or even your smartphone may actually be possessed by an evil spirit. Demonic possession is a very well-documented phenomenon among human beings, and has been for centuries, but what of modern devices such as computers and smartphones? Can these machines serve as some sort of conduit for evil forces? One person who would say yes to that is a Reverend Jim Peasboro, of Savannah, Georgia, in the United States, who has spent a lot of time denouncing how computers are powerful tools of the Devil for corrupting our souls. So far, so standard, but Peasboro goes beyond just using the Devil working through computers as a metaphor for their bad influence on our youth, and rather seems to believe that demonic forces can literally possess computers.Peasboro has written a whole book on this, called The Devil in the Machine: Is Your Computer Possessed by a Demon?, in which he outlines his belief that possession by demons can be experienced by anything with a mind, including humans, animals, and even the processor of your computer. According to Peasboro, “Any PC built after 1985 has the storage capacity to house an evil spirit,” with storage capacity seeming to make a difference, and he asserts that “one in 10 computers in America now houses some type of evil spirit.” He seems to take this all quite literally, and claims that these malicious spirits are responsible for seeping through our screens to exert their influence, which has led to much of the crime and gun violence among young people seen in the country. As to other effects of these malevolent cyber-demons he says:I learned that many members of my congregation became in touch with a dark force whenever they used their computers. Decent, happily married family men were drawn irresistibly to pornographic websites and forced to witness unspeakable abominations. Housewives who had never expressed an impure thought were entering Internet chat rooms and found themselves spewing foul, debasing language they would never use normally…One woman wept as she confessed to me, ‘I feel when I’m on the computer as if someone else or something else just takes over.’Surely this seems like it still must be just talking in metaphor. After all, the Internet can indeed be a scary, lawless badland where terrible people do terrible things, we get that, but Peasboro truly seems to think that it is not just the barrage of impure images and the limitless new opportunities to be exposed to violence and pornography online, but rather actual supernatural demons worming their way into our technology to reach out into us. The most bizarre story he tells is of coming face to face with one of these demons while inspecting a computer that was suspected of being possessed. He would say of the experience:The program began talking directly to me, openly mocked me. It typed out, ‘Preacher, you are a weakling and your God is a damn liar.’ Then the device went haywire and started printing out what looked like gobbledygook…I later had an expert in dead languages examine the text. It turned out to be a stream of obscenities written in a 2,800-year-old Mesopotamian dialect!Well, that seems like it’s definitely not your typical computer virus. If your computer starts berating you and spewing forth ancient Mesopotamian, then you probably have a bigger problem than just using Windows 10. You may be thinking about what you can do if that is the case, and Peasboro has the answer for you on that, saying that if you suspect that your computer is possessed by the Devil then all you have to do is consult a clergyman, or if that doesn’t work he says “Technicians can replace the hard drive and reinstall the software, getting rid of the wicked spirit permanently.” Hope you have that warranty handy.Don’t just take Paesboro’s word for it all, though. There are some other pretty spooky cases out there that seem to point to real demons actually lashing out and pushing through our computer screens, and one weird account comes from a poster on the site dreamsofdunamis, who says that as she was surfing the net one evening she came across a car ad that was filled with what seemed to be sinister and cryptic Illuminati symbolism. As she scrolled down, she found more creepy symbols and a line of spectral black and white figures, and that at that point she claims to have actually felt a demon physically leap out from the screen and actually pass through her. This is all strange enough as it is, but whatever presence had come through the computer had apparently gone on to prowl around the house, as her son soon came into the room complaining of having been woken up and attacked by some sort of terrifying entity. She said of what happened next:It sounded just like the black and white ghostly picture that I had just seen on that web page just moments before. The symbols were the same, so I knew it had to have come from that site. As I apologized to my child, I realized that I may have to stop surfing the web late at night, for I did not want to disturb my kids sleep like this any more. I shared this with my child, and told him that as soon as I had sensed the demon come through the screen, I cast it out in the name of Jesus, exited the page, and closed up the computer. I was surprised that the demon did not leave once it had been cast out. I was also surprised (and a bit frustrated,) that the demon attacking him was almost instantaneous; there was no pause or time elapse from when it went through my computer screen to when it entered into my child’s bedroom to attack him. My child then reminded me, that the demon that I had cast out had probably left, but there were numerous demons that could come through just one demonic doorway. And in this case, viewing the photo was the doorway into our house.She then goes on to speculate that the demon had come through the image on her computer, and that others might have entered her house as well. This caused her to go about praying to cast out any residual demonic forces lurking within the home. As they did this she claims to have heard a startling, loud noise like something wet hitting the floor nearby, and they looked to see a shadowy figure about 4 feet in height and possessing wings, which crouched there for a moment before screaming as if in pain and falling backwards to seemingly phase right through the wall. She goes on to claim that her family has been attacked on several occasions by such supernatural forces coming through their computer screen or even TV. She says of this:Our first encounter with demons coming out of computer and TV screens, happened several years ago, when one of my kids had clicked on a video that promised the viewer a glimpse of a real alien. We were all sitting there at the kitchen table, with the kids doing their school work, and this one kid had finished early, so as a reward, I told him he could use the computer while he waited for the rest of the kids to finish. Well, most of the youtube video that he had decided to view, was silent and dark, which caused one to lean in closer to the computer screen, to see if you could see anything. Suddenly, a drawing of an alien’s face flashed upon the screen, and a loud roar came from the speakers, and as everyone there at the table turned to look at the computer screen, a large black ghost-like hook, (reminiscent of Peter Pan’s Captain Hook, but very very black and wraith-like,) reached out through the computer screen and tried to stab itself into my child’s forehead. It glanced off the surface of his skin, and then gave an even louder roar of frustration, once it realized it had failed in its attack. The claw then evaporated back into the computer screen. Laughter was then heard coming from the video, as the perps laughed out loud at their supposed joke. As you can imagine, we were all left quite shaken, after seeing such a thing. It was a lesson none of us have forgotten!She blames this on Satanists posting images and videos with magical spells attached to them to facilitate the entry of demons into our world, and claims these show up on any site that attempts to cast light into the world of the unknown (like, say, the one you are reading right now). She goes on to give this warning:So I share this testimony with you, in the hopes that those among you who have children, especially young ones, will be extra careful in what you watch or view, especially in the nighttime hours. Keep in mind the doorways that can be formed through the viewing of evil photos, pictures, or videos. Cast out all the demons that may have come through the TV or computer screen, after viewing those questionable items. If you have someone who refuses to curtail their nighttime viewing, then increase your prayers to our God, that your children would be protected, and then still continue to cast out the demons as the Holy Spirit advises. Even if you can not see them, those demons still can come in and attack you and your family. Possible signs of this, is an inability to get that picture of the demon out of your mind, or if you can’t seem to forget the show you were just watching, nightmares once you go back to sleep, (or if others in your house wake up from them,) or if you find you are fearful or depressed, or getting hit with any other negatively strong emotion. (Demons love to take our normal negative emotions and turn the volume way up!)It is a completely bonkers testimony to be sure, and one wonders if this person is for real or not. It does not even seem to be just desktop computers that are prone to this sort of spiritual invasion, but also smartphones as well. After all, what is a smartphone but a tiny portable computer? One very odd report of demons and smartphones comes from Lima, Peru in 2015, when a young woman reportedly became actually possessed after using a Ouija Board smartphone app for “talking to the dead,” as part of the ‘CharlieCharlie’ challenge, a supposed ‘ancient Mexican ritual to summon spirits’ that has become a popular smartphone app. According to the urban legend, if you make a mistake you can open a portal through which demons and other nefarious spirits can creep through into our world, so no pressure.Eighteen-year-old Patricia Quispe was using the infamous app with her friends in an attempt to contact the spirit world when this got real weird real fast. That very same evening Patricia fell violently ill, and her parents began to worry. The following day the girl began to have strange seizures and convulsions, foaming at the mouth and apparently trying to commit suicide as well, and when she was brought to a hospital the wildly writhing young lady was reportedly barely able to be restrained by medics, who claimed that she was almost superhumanly strong.According to witnesses she was shouting and screaming in a deep voice unlike her own, and that much of it was gobbledygook but some of it was intelligible. Some of the things she reportedly blurted out in her eerie demon voice were “666,” “let me go, let me go,” “Please give me my phone,” as well as “Mum, these doctors don’t know what they’re doing, take me home.” Friends and family have claimed that Patricia had unwillingly let loose evil spirits through her phone and that they had possessed her. The young woman has since been admitted to a psychiatric hospital and footage of the alleged possession can be seen here. Is this real at all or some sort of a hoax?When looking at these sorts of stories it is interesting to note that even as our technology has changed and advanced, the same mysteries and superstitions that have plagued humankind for centuries still manage to adapt into our world. Evil spirits and demonic possession have found a way to hold on, stay relevant, and get with the times. Instead of arcane rituals, spells, and speaking through Ouija boards, we now have these forces supposedly popping through our computer and smartphone screens, reaching out from the beyond by way of the very technology that seems as though it should have made these phenomena obsolete. Whether any of these stories are true or not, the next time your computer is on the fritz perhaps you don’t need a repairman, but an exorcist. VanDenburgh from USA TODAY is browsing the shelves this week for some of the hottest new books on the market, and sharing her thoughts on it with you. Author Thomas Harris is back with a new novel about a meat merchant who kidnaps young women and harvests vital organs from them for sale to a wealthy international clientele.  The help for Johnson puts Kardashian West in the spotlight for her work on prison reform, and "Life" promises a change behind the scenes. It's Harris's first book in 13 years, so you can rejoice at the prospect of creating a brand new psychopath for Hannibal Lecter. The Kirkus Reviews star gushed: 'I laughed out loud and consistently every cover of the story, from the first page to the last, and I still laugh. In McCarthy, doctors and researchers give readers an insight into the battle for a cure for antibiotic-resistant bacteria known as superbugs. Kirkus Reviews said: "The author's narrative style is powerful and empathetic in a compelling combination that leaves the reader informed and optimistic. I hope that this will encourage you to continue reading and writing safely until you collapse, but I hope that it will encourage those of you who continue reading and writing after the break. Sam Redd Sam Redd read and read all night, his mind full of facts, information and pictures from far-off places. One night he decided it was time for him to write his own book, and his imagination staggered with wonder and imagination. It was at home, he was reading and writing, but one night Sam decided to be at home for the first time in his life. He decided to write a book called Lonely Cheese, and working on it made him very hungry. It was good that he found so many crumbs to eat when he finished the illustrations. Proud, proud, he posted a picture of himself amid a pile of crumbs on the floor outside his London home. I went to the library's biography and autobiography department and put my first book on the shelf. I wrote the words and a picture of Sam on the cover and called it "the squeaky muse of my life." I drew the picture by posing in a small mirror and then sketching what I saw, and then sketching it again. Then I went to the biography and autobiography department of the library and then to the art department of the New York Public Library and the museum department. When the librarian opened the nursery in the morning, a piece of paper stuck to the door. I looked down at the pencils that were ready to go and saw my own face smiling at me. The little girl said: "Who is the author next to me in the mirror? Maybe you play an instrument, maybe you are a good artist, or you could explain how to make a picture, but how do you do that? They can explain so many possibilities and how they play their instruments, so what do they do? There is a picture of a little boy in a truck looking at a large book, eyes wide open and hands in his pockets, like a child. It was called The Mouse's Villa Secret and gave Sam goosebumps as he wrote the scary scene. Later, he put the lonely cheese on his desk and showed it to the children at story time. A full moon shone through the darkened library as Sneaky put his book on the shelf and then returned to his little hole in the wall. It was a book for me, "said the librarian, just as it was for Sam," but it gives me goosebumps when I write it. The life of Mr Johnson, a keen hunter, hunter's family said, was "heartbreaking".Sonia Johnson, 60, and husband Gordon, who was away at the time, described the loss as "total devastation".Mr Johnson, from Edgware, west London, was trapped in a lane in Sloane Square when the shooting happened.Image copyright Police Handout Image caption Police believe Mr Johnson was killed in Old Street during the shootingImage copyright Metropolitan Police Image caption Mrs Johnson described the shooting as "disgusting andThis article is more than 3 years old.More From ForbesThis past academic year, more than 1 million students experienced Mystery Science in their classrooms. Elementary teachers in more than 10% of schools in the U.S. are using this program because the Mystery Science product turns any elementary teacher into an incredible science teacher.Mystery Science makes open-and-go lessons that inspire kids to love science. They make it possible for an elementary teacher without a background in science to teach lessons that entertain and inspire students. Teachers login to mysteryscience.com and browse lessons on all topics they are required to teach for science. Every lesson begins with an actual question that scientists wondered long ago—and eventually figured out. These are genuine questions that kids ask today such as “What do plants eat?” or “Why is there sand at the beach?”The journey begins with a video that sets up the mystery. Teachers then guide students through a discussion where the kids try to figure out the answer for themselves. A series of recorded observations gives students clues. The lesson culminates in a hands-on activity where students are conducting an experiment or building a model in order to solve the mystery for themselves.When teachers use Mystery Science, they are re-creating the process of scientific discovery in the classroom. Students are not simply memorizing conclusions, instead they’re learning how people discovered these things to be true.I had a chance to connect with Doug Peltz and Keith Schacht, the founders of Mystery Science to learn how they started their company, their impact in the classroom so far, and where they see this all going.Mystery ScienceAlexander Taub: Mystery Science is such a clever idea, starting with the questions asked long ago to learn science. How did you come up with it?Doug Peltz: Everyone has had the experience of being taught something that felt pointless. This is a fundamental failing of our education system. It’s unacceptable. At Mystery Science we hold it as a core principle: you can’t teach something that a person doesn’t care to learn. The first task of an educator is to motivate.Keith Schacht: Back in 2012, Doug was still teaching science in the classroom down in Irvine, California. I was visiting from out of town—we’ve been friends a long time—and I spent a day sitting in on his classes. I already knew Doug was a great teacher, but it was on this day of observing how he taught that I realized that all of my science classes had been taught backwards. Here I was watching Doug teach science forwards.Everyone is so focused on teaching the conclusions of scientists that they forget these conclusions are the end of a process. We all remember being told that plants need carbon dioxide, sunlight, and water; the Earth’s crust is made up of tectonic plates; and there is a periodic table of elements that includes things like carbon.But each of these scientific discoveries began as a question; someone became curious about something in the world and wanted to figure it out. What do plants eat? What created the mountains? Why do things turn black when they burn? Over a period of years, decades, or even centuries people investigated these questions, collected clues, and eventually solved the mystery. To separate scientific conclusions from an actual question that people—and kids—wonder about, turns science class into a dry vocabulary class. All too often students parrot scientific words and definitions without ever learning what these conclusions are an answer to, and how we know them to be true!Peltz: To sum it up, we start with questions because we revere the process of scientific discovery. We know it’s in early science education that scientific understanding, thinking, and curiosity are either developed in children, or lost.Taub: How have classes with Mystery Science performed compared to other science classes?Schacht: I’ll tell you the most important stat for all of us to measure and improve: it’s the number of children who grow up as problem solvers. Meaning: as they become adults, they have developed the ability to figure things out for themselves.This is both a difficult statistic to measure and it takes a decade or more to see the results. In the meantime, we need to use near-term proxies for the ultimate impact. We focus on getting real science instruction taught regularly during the years of children’s peak curiosity—the elementary grades (kindergarten through fifth grade).Peltz: What most people don’t realize is that in all this talk today about STEM education reform, nearly everyone is neglecting the formative early years. Only about 6% of elementary schools in the U.S. have a science teacher on staff. I used to work at one of the schools in this 6%.It often surprises people to learn that science is rarely taught in elementary schools in the U.S. This is because elementary teachers are being put in an impossible situation. Most of them are subject-matter generalists. They’re expected to teach and be experts on every subject. Science is the most difficult core subject for them to teach—in addition to being tested the least—so it’s the one that most often gets skipped.Yet right around the time children are entering kindergarten, when they’re five or six years old, their curiosity is exploding. They’re asking questions constantly. It’s critical that we develop habits of thinking and scientific understanding or this curiosity fades away.Schacht: The best early indicator we have of Mystery Science’s impact is how often teachers report that they’re now teaching science regularly. Often, they let us know that science has become their students’ favorite subject and students get upset if they don’t receive science that week! We have not yet quantified the increase in science teaching that Mystery Science has catalyzed, but this is the impact we are focused on.Taub: What is the goal of Mystery Science, as a company?Peltz: Our mission is to accelerate human progress. The only thing holding back human progress is the number of people who can solve problems—are able to figure things out for themselves. We are increasing this number in the next generation by fixing STEM education.There are three things that are needed to fix STEM education: (1) focusing on the years of peak curiosity, (2) beginning with questions rather than answers, (3) and teaching children how we know things to be true.Schacht: Our near-term goal is to ensure Mystery Science becomes the most popular science curriculum in the country. We’re already the fastest growing science resource, already used by teachers in 10% of elementary schools. This past year we reached more than one million children in classrooms.Taub: What’s the business model of Mystery Science? Do you charge anything to use?Schacht: Most teachers learn about Mystery Science from a friend or colleague. They can sign up on the website for free and use everything we’ve created for a full school year. At the end of the school year their school or district purchases a membership for all of the teachers to continue using Mystery Science.Core to our mission is not only to create the best science learning experiences for children, but to make them the most affordable option on the market. Every other curriculum on the market is at least twice as expensive, many are five or six times as expensive as Mystery Science. It’s appalling both how expensive traditional textbooks and science curriculum are, and how rarely they’re actually used in the classroom.Taub: Does the name Mystery Science limit to what you can do in the future with other potential courses?Peltz: We’re intentionally staying focused on science. Science is the most important subject to be fixed in schools in order to accelerate human progress, so we’ll be focused on it for quite some time. We have quite a monumental task ahead of us. We’ve basically set ourselves the task of taking the sum total of human knowledge about how the world works and translating it into a form that is understandable to children. This is the science of explaining science—and it’s a field still in its infancy.Taub: Any great stories from teachers you can share?Schacht: One of the most surprising things to arise out of our success is the volume of fan mail we get. Doug now gets fan mail from students and teachers–actual letters sent to him through the postal service, expressing their thanks for what we’re doing. We get emails expressing gratitude literally every day now; it blows us away.Peltz: I knew we were creating something special when early on with Mystery Science, a teacher told us that after he finished his first Mystery Science lesson, his students applauded!One teacher recently messaged us to say that she gave her each of her students an end-of-year survey to find out what their favorite parts of the year was. Most of them cited doing Mystery Science each week. Mind you, these were lists that included things like recess.Another child got unexpectedly picked up early from school one day and was in tears that he was going to miss Mystery Science that week.I think one of my favorite stories was a parent who sent me a photo of her child ambling through the front yard on a foggy morning. She said her child came inside with a look of profound excitement on her face and said, “Mom! Hurry! This is our chance to feel what it’s like to walk through a cloud… fog is a cloud that’s on the ground!”Her daughter explained that she’d learned this from a Mystery Science lesson, and the mother was blown away. We had created this magical moment for her child; we changed how she looked at the world around her.That is what it’s all about for us.Taub: What are your plans for the rest of the year? Anything big coming out?Schacht: We have a significant expansion planned for every grade level, kindergarten through fifth grade. In addition, there are dozens of small but important ways that we’ll make it even easier for teachers to deliver incredible science experiences for their children. These range from offline support to making it easier to gather supplies for science investigations, to answering science questions that students ask their teachers. In a normal presidential election year, analysis of the role of science in the presidential campaign might focus on the nuances of the candidates’ competing priorities for the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation and other federal scientific agencies. Nanoscience versus neuroscience, say, the moon versus Mars.This is clearly not a normal election year.Former vice president Joe Biden’s plans and President Donald Trump’s records on research funding are a part of the picture, of course, and of utmost importance to many academics and higher education leaders. But many scientists believe a more fundamental issue -- respect for science in government -- is at stake in this election.Trump’s continued efforts to downplay the severity of the pandemic, seen most recently in the wake of his own COVID-19 diagnosis, his rejection of public health guidance -- including, perhaps most consequentially, his mockery and failure of role modeling when it comes to face masks -- and reported efforts by his administration to interfere in scientific decision making in the nation’s public health agencies and sideline experts have raised alarms among scientists and many others. Scientists have criticized the president for rejecting scientific and other forms of expertise, including by forcing out or muzzling government-employed scientists and by eliminating many advisory committees comprised of outside experts.Opposition to Trumps policies among scientists started early in his term when many of them joined the inaugural March for Science events held on Earth Day in 2017. Although the march was nonpartisan in nature, many participants were deeply concerned by Trumps scientific policies on science. Those concerns have grown substantially since then.The magazine Scientific American recently endorsed Biden despite never before having backed a candidate in its 175-year history.“The evidence and the science show that Donald Trump has badly damaged the U.S. and its people -- because he rejects evidence and science,” the editors wrote in an editorial. “The most devastating example is his dishonest and inept response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which cost more than 190,000 Americans their lives by the middle of September. [The figure is now more than 215,000.] He has also attacked environmental protections, medical care, and the researchers and public science agencies that help this country prepare for its greatest challenges.”Similarly, The New England Journal of Medicine took a step unprecedented in its 208-year history of condemning one candidate and endorsing, at least by implication, another.“When it comes to the response to the largest public health crisis of our time, our current political leaders have demonstrated that they are dangerously incompetent,” the NEJM editors wrote in an editorial published last week that mentions neither Trump nor Biden by name. “We should not abet them and enable the deaths of thousands more Americans by allowing them to keep their jobs.”“The administration and the president in particular have undermined science every opportunity that they’ve had,” said Holden Thorp, the editor in chief of Science and author of a scathing Sept. 18 editorial, Trump Lied About Science, condemning Trump for intentionally misleading the American public about the severity of the pandemic in February. Trump has maintained that he downplayed the seriousness of the pandemic to prevent a public panic.Thorp noted that Trump has consistently proposed sizable cuts to science funding.“Thankfully, folks in the Congress don’t agree with him about that, and we’ve had good increases in science funding over the last few years, but that’s not something that the president deserves any credit for,” Thorp said.Thorp added that Trump’s rhetoric “has undermined everything that science has said except when he wants to use it for his purposes.”The Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University and the Climate Science Legal Defense Fund jointly maintain the Silencing Science tracker, which keeps a running tally of instances of federal and state government attempts to censor or otherwise inhibit scientific processes or the use of scientific information since the 2016 election.“Whenever there is a scientific finding that runs counter to the administration’s objectives such as encouraging fossil fuel use or diminishing the dangers of the virus, they work hard to squelch it. It’s an ostrich administration,” said Michael B. Gerrard, the Andrew Sabin Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia Law School and director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law.Gerrard said he would expect a “dramatic change” should Biden win the election.“For one thing, Biden embraces the science of climate change and of other environmental hazards and the virus,” Gerrard said. “It would be a 180-degree reversal, just as Trump completely reversed from Obama’s policies. Obama had serious scientists in his administration and he listened to them. I would expect we’d see that kind of thing again.”The Biden campaign did not respond to requests for comment, but the former vice president has said he would listen to the scientists to control the coronavirus pandemic and has implored Trump to do the same.Courtney Parella, a spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, said in a statement that Trump has worked throughout his first term to ensure cutting-edge innovations are happening in America.She said the president is fighting to put America First, encourage research and development, and reignite exploration and invention, and his Administration will continue to pave the way for science and research to flourish in the U.S.Federal Research PrioritiesTrump has repeatedly questioned scientific consensus, as when he rejected the premise last month that climate change was a contributing factor in causing the wildfires raging in the American West, insisting instead that Itll start getting cooler and saying I dont think science knows what is happening.The president has denied or downplayed the scientific evidence about the threat of climate change. His administration rolled back one of Obamas signature climate achievements, rules that would improve fuel efficiency standards for cars -- the rollback is being challenged in court -- and initiated the U.S.’s withdrawal from the Paris climate accord. His campaign website boasts that Trump “has approved the infrastructure and provided the resources needed to unleash oil and gas production in the U.S.”Biden, meanwhile, has pledged a move toward a 100 percent clean energy economy and net-zero emissions by 2050, and has promised “the largest-ever investment in clean energy research and innovation.” How much of his ambitious $400 billion plan he is able to accomplish will depend on the makeup of Congress after the election, but the tone toward climate science and climate change policies would undoubtedly change markedly.In terms of other research priorities, Trumps administration has prioritized some research areas, notably artificial intelligence and quantum information science. His most recent budget request would double research and development investments in those two areas by 2022. However, his budget proposal would also have cut the overall NSF and NIH budgets by 7 percent each, among other cuts to science.“There have been some exceptions, but they’ve recommended cuts for most agencies every year, and many of those cuts would have been historically large, said Matt Hourihan, director of the research and development budget and policy program at the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Hourihan said the Trump administration has targeted especially deep cuts to research related to renewable energy and energy efficiency, climate and other environmental research, manufacturing, agriculture, and basic science.Biden is calling for $300 billion over four years investment in research and development and breakthrough technologies -- from electric vehicle technology to lightweight materials to 5G and artificial intelligence.The former vice president, who oversaw the “Cancer Moonshot” initiative in Obama’s administration and lost his son Beau to brain cancer, has pledged “billions of dollars” to seek cures for cancer, diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease. He has called for establishing a new agency focused on research and development in health care modeled after the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.“We’re confident and hopeful that Vice President Biden will make cancer research and medical science a national priority if he becomes president,” said Jon Retzlaff, chief policy officer for the American Association for Cancer Research. “I think it’s accurate to say that the president has not made cancer research and medical science a national priority.”We have been very concerned when we’ve seen the presidents budget proposals for NIH, but we’ve been very assured by seeing the action that Congress has taken to ignore the presidents proposals and instead double down on the importance of the NIH, Retzlaff said. Throughout Trumps term, Congress approved steady increases in NIH funding to the tune of $2 to $3 billion per year.Experts emphasize that funding for scientific research has enjoyed wide support in Congress from Democrats and Republicans.We have a lot of strong support in Congress for science and that has really saved us over the last four years, said Phil Bucksbaum, president of the American Physical Society and the Marguerite Blake Wilbur Chair in Natural Science at Stanford University. You can just imagine what would have happened if the president’s budgets had simply been passed into law.International Talent and International TensionsAnother area of concern to the scientific community involves international students and immigration policy on high-skilled workers. The Trump administration has proposed a number of policies seen by many in higher education as detrimental to international students or scholars, including a recently proposed rule that would limit the time student visa holders could stay in the U.S.The Trump administration has also suspended entry to the U.S. for holders of H-1B skilled worker visas, a temporary route by which some foreign professors come to the U.S. and that many businesses, particularly in the technology sector, rely upon.The contrast couldn’t be clearer, said Kei Koizumi, a science policy consultant and the former assistant director for federal research and development in the Obama White House. The Trump administration has used every means possible to restrict all sorts of immigration, including the high-skilled immigration and student immigration that are so vital to the health of U.S. research institutions. The Biden campaign has not been very specific, but I get the impression that at the very least they’re going to roll back the Trump administration restrictions to where they were before.Among other moves, the Biden campaign says he would exempt recent foreign graduates of American Ph.D. programs in STEM fields from any cap on employment-based visas.A related issue bound up in policies on international students and high-skilled immigration involves concerns about China and U.S. research security, an area of increasing focus across the range of federal scientific and national security and law enforcement agencies during Trump’s tenure. Experts say concerns about Chinese government efforts to exploit the relatively open environment of research universities to steal federally supported academic research are not likely to end no matter who wins the election -- though the tone may shift.“I don’t think that goes away if Biden is elected,” said Tobin Smith, vice president for policy at the Association of American Universities. “I think Democrat or Republican administration, our stance toward China is changing. It may not be quite as extreme as what we’ve seen, especially post-pandemic, with this administration trying to blame the virus on China, but the issue of China is going to be there.”Koizumi, the former assistant director for federal research and development in the Obama White House, agreed. “It is a bipartisan concern.”From my vantage point, I dont see easy answers, Koizumi said. “What gives me more hope for a Biden administration to solve this better is that [the Trump] administration has not really weighed the evidence or tried to balance competing interests. I trust a Biden administration will reach out to and bring in expert viewpoints and information from all of these sources, whether it’s universities or the national security establishment or wherever, to really think about what should be done and how the U.S. should move forward.”Coronavirus StimulusIn the short term, advocates for science say a priority is securing stimulus funding to get research back up and going again after the disruptions caused by the mass shutdowns of college labs after the start of the coronavirus pandemic last spring. Labs that continued paying graduate students and postdoctoral scholars during the shutdowns need additional funds to keep them on the payroll. Advocacy groups have pointed to other costs associated with shutting down and reopening labs, including destruction of biological samples and disposal of hazardous materials, the care of animal subjects, and the costs of restarting experiments that could not be completed.Our ultimate concern is, if they don’t get extra money, do agencies potentially have to make a decision in fiscal year 2021 about new grants versus supporting old grants -- in which case you lose yet another season of being able to start new grants, said Debbie Altenburg, assistant vice president for research advocacy and policy at the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities.The coronavirus stimulus act passed by Congress and signed by Trump last spring included $1.3 billion in funding for COVID research, but it did not include funds for extensions or supplements to existing research grants.Congress and the White House are currently negotiating a second stimulus. The stimulus bill approved by the Democratic-controlled House includes funds for supporting costs associated with shutdowns of biomedical labs and extending existing National Science Foundation grants.It is unclear whether there is political will in Congress and the White House to pass a stimulus act before the election. Trump said last week that he was stopping negotiations until after the election, but he subsequently reversed himself and suggested he was interested in a large-scale deal. The White House presented House Democrats with a $1.8 trillion package, substantially larger than its previous offer but still less than the $2.2 trillion package passed by the House earlier this month.Right now, the stimulus is sort of on-again, off-again from a negotiation perspective. We’re continuing to advocate, but that’s hard to predict, said Jenny Luray, vice president of strategy and communications for Research!America, a membership and advocacy organization made up of universities, hospitals, businesses and industries, nonprofit groups, and others with a stake in research policy.Thats a really big issue and that’s one that will continue to be something that Research!America and our university members will advocate for, regardless of who wins in November. ‘Wow! Wow! Wow! I can’t find the words… the best book l have ever read. I’ve never read anything as amazing in all my life.’ Joanne Mason, Retired Secondary Teacher, TallangattaAt last! An insider’s account on one of Australia’s most sinister crimes.John Silvester, Journalist (The Age) and AuthorThe retail edition is now available (self published edition sold out) through Wilkinson Publishing at wilkinsonpublishing.com.au and through other normal channels, including most book shops, online book sales and public libraries.Book ReviewsRob Hunter was 20 when he was abducted at gunpoint with nine primary school pupils at a remote country school. He has lived with the terror of those crowded hours for four decades. Finally, he has found the words to tell his story. This is it.Andrew Rule, Journalist (Herald Sun) and AuthorI had to let you know I thoroughly enjoyed your book. I couldn’t put it down!How brave the children, the other adults caught up and yourself were! I found I was holding my breath in places waiting to see what happened next. NadineI loved your book. You must have been beside yourself going through that turmoil. I found it so easy to read. KeithThanks for your book – it was so enlightening in terms of what you went through – obviously traumatic. It’s amazing how well you have come through it. AndrewWhat a story! And all the bits that fitted – small and intricate events that came together to form the jigsaw of Rob’s 21 hours in captivity. It was a remarkable account and; I think it should be compulsory reading and study in modern teaching training… There were so many amazing points in that story. Thank you for the book…I thought it was riveting. RogerJust finished reading about your extraordinary experience – what a horrendous ordeal for you all to endure. I appreciate you spending the time and effort into putting the story down in writing, it was a fantastic read with such a great outcome compared to events today which tend to have tragic conclusions. KenReceived your book yesterday, finished reading it at 8 o’clock last night – loved it! The detail was amazing. RayRob, I really enjoyed reading your book. I gave a copy to my mother who rarely reads a book. She read it in 2 days and has now passed it on to a couple of her friends. DaleI really enjoyed reading ‘Day 9 at Wooreen’. The excitement got me hooked and I couldn’t put it down – even though it was an horrific story. I’m thrilled there was a happy ending, and appreciate you sharing this part of your life with us. JaneenI got my copy of “Day 9 at Wooreen” in the mail on Friday afternoon….and it was finished by Saturday afternoon! I couldn’t put it down. PeterI couldn’t put this book down! Rob, thank you for sharing your story… I’m kinda lost for words but need you to know it moved me deeply. Julie MI really enjoyed reading your book Rob. I could hear your voice all the way through. ColinI didn’t want the book to end – I loved it so much. But I couldn’t put it down. I had shivers running up and down my spine. My friend loved it too, so over our holiday break we’re going to drive The Grand Ridge Road, camping along the route and check all the sites. JoyRob, your book has been an adventure! Thank God you all survived. I felt a collection of emotions on your behalf including frustration, fear, care and responsibility for those fab kids. Also shock, confusion and exhaustion. SueGreat book Amigo! Loved reading it. I was on the edge of my seat. RodgerI’ve finished reading Rob’s book. A very vivid account of a very dramatic experience. Seat of the pants stuff to read. Nice to know 40 years on all those affected are doing OK. LeighThank you for the book Rob – it was a privilege to read it. You certainly underplayed your amazing role in it – the children were so blessed that you were the one kidnapped with them. KathrynI can see the story would make a good film and could include how people are today. CherylThanks Rob for this treasure. I ‘teared up’ when you and the children were safely reunited with your respective parents – being a parent myself. Thanks for sharing so capably! SusanI finished your book Rob, and have lent it out to a lot of friends. A fantastic read. I hope to be able to see you speak at an event soon. AmandaLoved reading your book – we have 2 copies. In parts it is hard to read because of memories but I thoroughly loved it. My dad loved it too. We had a Canadian exchange teacher at school last year & I proudly told her about your story, so a book has traveled to Canada as her memory of working in this lovely area. She even followed the route. RobynLoved your book Rob. JennyAn incredible story featuring inspiring and heroic characters. Thank you Rob for sharing your amazing real tale of survival and consequent thriving! BronwynI have just finished reading this book. What an amazing young man. He should be so proud. His story keeps you involved and wanting to know the ending. So sorry it was from experience. Thank you for sharing. VickiA great read. My heart was in my mouth wondering what the outcome was. DaphneI couldn’t wait to get back to this story. I really liked the maps, as I was trying to visualise it all. I found it really interesting when the extra people joined in hearing their perspectives – how that helped you process what was really happening. LizzieI loved your book Rob. I couldn’t put it down. I was moved with tears knowing how you have recovered from such an ordeal. Thank you for writing it all down. Julie GYour book was fantastic Rob. I loved reading it – I read it over two days. It’s amazing how well you have recovered – thanks to your faith. TrishI loved reading this book. It’s written with feeling – the emotions unravel easily as Rob tells the story. BruceCongratulations on your book. It was a real page turner – a very good read. Not a word wasted! MichaelI loved reading your book Rob. I was captivated. I’ve passed it on to a lot of work mates – it’s become a real talking point. They loved it too. MelThis is a fantastic read – authentic and true. There is no fluff, it’s straight to the point – it’s concise and clear. PatsyRob, I just finished reading the book. I couldn’t put it down. So amazing. xxx Karen NI finished your book a few days ago. What a page turner! I think the mark of a good read is when you’re still thinking about the book long after you’ve finished it. Your story will stay with me for a long time I’m certain. Thank you for putting down on paper all your recollections from that time. I’m so pleased it had a happy ending! JenniferI love this book. The precise timing of the accident was amazing – what an intervention! I particularly loved reading the Notes on Sources section at the very end. IanRob, you’ve done an amazing job!!! It was a fantastic, captivating read. Thank you for taking the time and mental energy to write it. JacquiI am not a reader but this book got me. I was enthralled by the events as they unraveled. I had to keep reading. JohnMy husband and I really liked your book. What you went through! – we never realised. And what your parents had to go through – we really felt for them. JudyAmazing Rob! I’m exhausted. I thought I was there myself. Riveting. Couldn’t put it down. NevilleWhat an amazing story! Rob has a great writing style – so easy to read. I love the short sentences. LanceThank you SO much for providing me with this treasure!! I have finished it, loved it, and can honestly say that it was a book which led me to feeling as if I was so close to what was taking place….maybe more so than any other book I can remember reading. It provided not so much a bird’s eye view, but a ground-level view. Almost as if the reader is part of the experience. So engaging. NolaRob, what a gripping account! I could not put the book down; you wrote from the heart and articulated a very difficult circumstance in life with aplomb. Well done! You hold a special place in my life. RayRob Hunter! I finally took the time to read your book. It was a brilliant read and a credit to you. You are however responsible for my long and drawn out day, as I couldn’t stop reading. It lead me into the early hours of this morning – 2:30am with a 6am start for work! It was great and as you can see I couldn’t put it down. So blessed to know you and so blessed to be sharing in your heart and experience. One which I know must not have been easy to share. NarelleIt was very captivating (no pun intended). I’m about to embark on a second reading. Thanks so much for sharing your story. You hear stories and read newspaper articles, but it always seems a little “detached”. It is not until you have a first hand account such as this that the impact of an event really hits home. This happened to REAL people. It caused REAL life long trauma. I still can not believe that Edwin Eastwood just walked into a tiny school and did what he did to an innocent young man and nine children…and then later….six others…… Thanks for sharing what the experience was like for you. Thanks for sharing your faith in Jesus! I think you are a very brave man! PeteWow what a story! Can appreciate why it took so long to get it down on paper – but so glad you did! Barry and I were both totally ‘there with you’ and laughed often as we could just hear you saying various things so gently to the children. MargWhat a FLIPPING GOOD book! Amazing book, couldn’t put it down. I actually had to stop myself reading it to make it last. LaurenI very much enjoyed reading your book and have passed it to others. You certainly gave a wonderful witness and testimony in dealing with your attacker and caring for the children. PaulIt was a great read – my mother also enjoyed it – so thanks for putting it into print! SueI thoroughly enjoyed reading the account – couldn’t turn the pages quickly enough to find out how it all ended. There were so many moments when I shook my head in disbelief as the story unfolded. What peculiar events, such unusual ransom demands…. and he pushed on even in the face of certain failure when the ute crashed and you were joined by all those extra people…! What an ordeal you all endured…! I was also very interested to learn more about the aftermath and the results throughout the years, thank you for including that. My 15 year old daughter is now more than halfway through, she too is finding it enthralling… KellyI have read your book & enjoyed the story as it unfolded. Thoroughly enjoyed hearing & reading all the details; quite an experience Rob & can understand the lingering effects on you. You have managed to conceal the effects on you very well across the 40 years. Bless you Rob and I trust you have felt enormous peace since you have untangled your story and written the details. KevinI loved the book! A great read and really well written, I couldn’t put it down. BillWhat an excellent autobiography. It must have cost you a lot of emotional effort to retrace the whole story and you have written it so well. Congratulations! It is what is called in the book trade a ‘Page Turner.’ I found the narrative gripping. WinAlthough I only started reading it yesterday, I finished it today which is an achievement for me in itself. I would like to congratulate you on what you have produced. Your account of the events of February 1977 is first class. It would be wrong to say entertaining, because you lived through this insane ordeal and although many will be entertained and enthralled, this was a very real, very scary and terrifying experience for you and the others involved. RobI totally love that you have waited till now to share this story – like so many today you could have played the poor poor pitiful me card at any time – I think a lot of people have a whole lot to learn about that. I am intrigued by your attitude of forgiving – it is something I have never really mastered but events over the last few years could possibly not have affected me as much now if I could truly forgive. JanI was thrilled to get the book and I have read it already. It was a great read. I am so sure the ladies were sent to take care of them all, so sure. It was a horrific situation. So, thank you for writing the book, and giving us a first hand account of what you all went through. CoralI enjoyed your book very much. What a harrowing experience for you and the children and all the other people involved. You must have been a very sensible young man to keep your head the way you did. I wonder if many 20 year olds today would have been so capable. The book was very well written. MargaretI couldn’t put this book down. To think that this was real life and not a book of fiction is unbelievable! I could never imagine what that experience would be like. Thanks for sharing your story and bless you for your caring nature. Karen AI received your book yesterday and have already read it! God and the Angels were certainly looking after you and the nine children, but still cannot even begin to imagine what it must have been like for you, what it even felt like for you. Thank God that you and the children all survived and were ok… well, as ok as could be, after being rescued…. Just one amazing book… Thank you. LeonieThank you for the copy of your book which arrived in the mail this morning. Have just finished reading it from cover to cover – totally enthralling. Couldn’t put it down. IanCongratulations on your book and the good work that you now do. I am so glad that you have been able to build a life and career after the horrific events of Feb 1977, and can now draw on your experience to help others. FayeI started it last night in bed and finished it today, I couldn’t put it down. Congratulations on the way you have written it, as it just flows and is so inclusive of not only your own experiences and thoughts but of the involvement of the children, & others kidnapped. JohnCongratulations on the final production of your remarkable book. I trust it receives the widespread publicity which it deserves; continues the healing of those involved and succeeds in your aim of giving renewed hope in a troubled world. MickThanks Rob! Many thanks for the long hours and hard work that it took to write your book – remarkable! Your story raises so many questions. I’m so thankful that you have answered in your heart and mind, some of the most important. Guessing some will never be answered, indeed, probably don’t have answers. Healing in the writing? LindaWe ‘enjoyed’ your book Rob. What a story! Andy and SarahCongratulations! Many thanks for your brave and courageous reminiscences of that traumatic event. I shed tears thinking of those children and yourself who could do nothing in that situation. I felt honoured to receive your book which I read far into the night – unputdownable. Faith can move mountains. MarjI think you made a very good job of the book and it made very good reading. NeilWhat an incredible thing you have done Rob in writing the book. I just couldn’t put it down. It brought back so many memories, tho’ I didn’t know half of what you went through – such responsibility with those children, and you yourself so very young and inexperienced. What your parents and family must have gone through. Thank you so much for taking the time to write your story and for having to go through all the pain and memories after all these years. LindaThe book is great. You must be pleased with the presentation/format as well. I couldn’t bring myself to read it at first, so John read it and found it hard to put down. So then I started and couldn’t put it down. But I found my heart was racing, so can just imagine how you felt at bringing it all back. There is something in the book that I disagree with Rob! You said you looked ridiculous, but you were young and quite in keeping with those times and probably in the language of today they would have said you looked ‘cool.’ DoreenI finished the book at 1.30 this morning. Couldn’t put it down. My husband read it first and we both shed tears to read what really happened. It is a miracle that you all escaped with minimal physical injuries. Thanks to your calm leadership it was amazing that the children remained so calm. It could have turned out so differently. JeanieThanks so much for your effort in recording this. I was so engrossed I uncharacteristically neglected quite a few chores throughout the day! I was able to imagine the entire crazy drama unfold. Your truthfulness and your faith are so evident and so refreshing. I also sincerely appreciate your attitude of forgiveness and the clear articulation of its healing power. I’m also so glad that my teenage kids are super eager to read it. KelvinAn interesting read Rob. I’m now buying a copy for a friend. EileenI was captivated by the events that unfolded in the retelling of this story. The resilience and perseverance even in the toughest of situations is awesome. I highly recommend the read. JackiHas to be one of the best reads. Feel a special connection having done the road trip following The Grand Ridge Road. Joy.
